---
title: DeltaChat multi-platform release waves / many thanks!
author: holger
---

A lot of work in the last half year is coming to fruition -- 
it's becoming official release time for several efforts: 

- **Delta/Android 0.100.0**: code was completely revamped and we are now pushing a new
  F-droid release and soon are aiming for G-play as well.  The [new code](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-android) is based
  on Signal's UI code instead of the Telegram UI code we used in the last F-droid
  release.  By this, 20-30 long-standing issues could be closed and we have a much nicer 
  and more maintainable code base now -- note that we also had to work a lot to bring back 
  the UX look and feel of the Telegram version -- and there are still some things left to be done! 
  Tons of thanks to Bjoern Petersen, Angelo Fuchs, Daniel Boehrsi, Florian Haar, 
  Asiel Díaz Benítez, chklump, amplifier, testbird and many others who contributed 
  code and bug reports!
  
  If you have installed and used Android dev releases (thanks!) you will need to run an 
  export/import cycle if you install from F-Droid app or a [a new dev apk release](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-android/releases).  Current F-droid users will just be upgraded
  and don't need to export/import.  Once it actually reaches F-droid (may take a while)
  we'll see to do another blog post describing more of what's new (tons of things!). 

- **Delta/Desktop 0.100.0**: a new Desktop app with 
  [pre-built packages for Linux and Mac, with help for Windows needed](/en/download). 
  The Delta/Desktop effort has evolved over 6 months now and is working nicely
  for many people already. It re-uses parts of the Signal/Desktop application 
  but again we worked a lot on the UX side to get more of a Delta/Android and 
  Telegram UX feel. Big thanks to Magnus/ralphtheninja, Karissa McKelvey, 
  Jikstra, Simon Laux and many others who helped to make Delta/Desktop a reality. 

  You can use Delta/Desktop standalone, i.e. without a mobile, or in conjunction
  with a mobile app.  Chat messages and encryption can be shared between Delta apps
  using the same e-mail account.  Desktop also offers multi-account support which
  all other platforms don't offer yet. 

- **Delta/iOS Preview 7**: an app installable via Testflight which
  offers basic setup, (encrypted) chatting and sending and display of images,
  and scanning and verification of QR codes. 

  Many thanks to Jonas and Alla Reinsch, Friedel Ziegelmayer, humanlikedesaster 
  and the hundreds of folks who tried out earlier TestFlight releases.  

- **deltachat-core on Debian**: recently Micah Anderson who also had
  joined us in Kyiv and advises DeltaChat on several levels, managed 
  to put [deltachat core 0.39.1 into Debian/Unstable](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/deltachat-core). Many thanks to Drebs and Janka for helping this effort along! 

- [new Transifex language
  repo](https://www.transifex.com/delta-chat/delta-chat-app/dashboard/)  which is now 
  the new language base for all Delta apps.  If you speak non-english please see if
  you can contribute.  Many thanks to Enrico Bella who helped to organize things
  with translators and also participates as a liason between translators and devs. 

When it comes to thanking and mentioning people i'd like to mention a few more specifically:

- Ksenia Ermoshina who is with DeltaChat (and Autocrypt!) since years
  now and has majorly helped to instigate the "DeltaChat Robustness and Usability" project 
  which got us funding from the OpenTechFund. Ksenia is also driving many key happenings 
  around DeltaChat, recently the [DeltaChat needfinding report](https://delta.chat/en/2018-12-19-needfinding) and the [Delta-XI Kyiv gathering](https://delta.chat/en/2018-11-17-deltaxi). 
  And there are rumors about new interesting things happening late spring 2019 in Kyiv ;) 

- Janka-X is with DeltaChat since almost a year now, has helped with
  sorting out licensing and GDPR issues and also is starting to contribute
  not only beautiful graphics but for example presented DeltaChat and its privacy story 
  to "DuD", a key german privacy conference mid 2018, see [here](https://github.com/deltachat/playground/blob/master/talks/dud-2018-delta.odp?raw=true) for the slides that gained a lot of praise. 
  Beware, she is also diving into hacking/coding and has contributed first PRs.

- Floris Bruynooghe who has contributed majorly to help with the build system
  (meson based on desktop and with core) and also with 
  the [python bindings](https://py.delta.chat) and various conceptual
  bits and pieces with Deltachat-core. 

- XXX add more  
