---
title: Delta Chat 1.0 Released: new features, more robust, fast and secure 
author: compl4xx
---

XXX embed the gplay video here

After months of hard work, Delta Chat 1.0 release was [released to Google Play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=chat.delta), with lots of improvements: 

- **Profile images**: you can set an avatar image for yourself, and your
  contacts will see it when you message them.  As with all other core 
  features of Delta Chat, there is no extra server (vulgo: the cloud) 
  involved, other than your e-mail provider for sending and receiving messages. 

- **Device chats**: a new "system" chat where release-update messages and warnings
  are generated by the Delta Chat app. Warnings or popups will now rather
  show as a message in the device Chat.

- **Robustness**: the core system used by all Delta Chat apps is now written
  using the "Rust" language, widely hailed as the most robust and safe 
  system programming language. This also has speed up message receiving
  and delivery. 

- **Security**: for end-to-end encryption we are using 
  [rPGP](https://github.com/rpgp/rpgp), which passed 
  a security review review earlier in 2019. For Transport 
  Layer Encryption (TLS) we are using the native system libraries
  on each platform. For protection against active attacks we 
  have implemented and refined the [Countmitm protocols](https://countermitm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/new.html)
  which in turn use rPGP. 

### Profile Pictures

One thing which makes Delta Chat much prettier are **profile pictures**. Or at
least, it makes Delta as pretty as its users ;)

You can add a profile picture in your settings. If you write to your contacts
or add them via QR code, they automatically see it as your profile picture.
Contacts who don’t use Delta Chat see it as an email attachment.

For privacy reasons, no one sees your profile picture until you write a message
to them. This way, you can control who sees your picture without any extra
interaction. This is very typical for the Delta approach on privacy by design.

![The Delta Chat settings - in the top you can see a profile image and a user
name. You can get this version at the Google Play
Store.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2019-12-17-delta-chat-google-play-release-settings-light.png)

*You can set a profile image in the settings. Your contacts receive it
automatically.*

### Show Classic Emails as Contact Requests

Many Delta users use the messenger for all their emails, not only for chatting.
In the settings, they can set "show classic emails" to "all". Then they will
see normal emails as well, not only Delta messages.

With version 1.0, if you have set "show classic emails" to "all", emails from
new people will show up as contact requests - directly in your chat list. This
way, you will never miss an email. If you don't want to have a conversation
with your Delta Chat app, you can just decline the contact request.

![The Delta Chat chat list - in the top there is a contact request. You can get
this version at the Google Play
Store.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2019-12-17-delta-chat-google-play-release-chat-list-light.png)

*Never miss an email - just set "show classic emails" to "all" to receive all
emails as contact requests.*

### The Device Chat - Delta Infos Directly on Your Phone

With the new Android version for the Google Play Store, users get important
information directly as a chat.

This channel will mostly be used if there are new updates, or if there are
problems. In short - for all the boring stuff developers need you to know.

![The device chat, where you can see information from the
developers.](../assets/blog/screenshots/2019-12-17-delta-chat-google-play-release-device-chat-light.png)

*The first message everyone gets via the device chat is some explanation on how
Delta Chat works.*

### Saved Messages 

saved messages

Android9 is better supported (notifications, 64bit)

[Try it out!](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=chat.delta)

## Improvements in the background

### New Rust core for robustness, speed and security 

The core library of Delta Chat is completely written in safe Rust (multi-month effort, started April 2019), and is using modern async libraries to perform IMAP and SMTP. It will still require stabilization but already it's running faster. Delta Chat is thus the first messenger app suite that has a full-Rust core.

[Contribute!](https://delta.chat/contribute)

### SecURiTyy

RPGP, the e2e crypto engine used by all DC apps, got a security review (link to publishing the security report), no critical flaws found for DC's usage, and most (all?) other issues have been addressed.

## Have you tried out our Desktop Client and iOS app?

If you don't have an Android phone, no problem - Delta Chat is available
in preview versions for Windows, MacOS, Linux, and iOS. Those versions 
are all in Beta stage but are pretty well usable already: 

## New Usability Features

If you use Delta Chat already, then you probably found it on
[F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/packages/com.b44t.messenger/). F-Droid is still
offering version 0.510.1 for now. Since the last official release for F-Droid,
there have been many improvements in usability:

## Thanks to the dozens of people who helped! 

The whole rewrite and this release was a huge community effort.  Thanks
to all contributors, testers, translators, those who fetched mate & food
and/or cooked at the gatherings, reviewed pull requests, thanks to our
CI servers, and everyone else we forgot here.

[Get Delta Chat now!](https://get.delta.chat)

If you want to migrate from or to an APK or F-Droid installation, export a backup, 
install the app, and import the backup in the new app.
