---
title: Belarus
author: okdistribute
image: ../assets/blog/2020-07-scan-videochat-provider.jpg
---

## Belarus

It's critical that ordinary people can get information out of their country without the government knowing who they are or what they're talking about. This free communication forms the basis for political freedom. This diversity of opinion and independent media are the bedrock of a free and fair society.

From August 9 to August 12, Internet access in Belarus was severely restricted for a total of 61 hours, meaning only text messages and voice calls. Twitter and WhatsApp? broken. VPNs were blocked. The government blocked Apple Store and Google Play, so even if you knew an app that worked for you, you still couldn't download it. Effectively, all secure communications were blocked and rendered inaccessible, unless you were already prepared for this scenario.

Meanwhile, the authoritarian government of Belarus continued to harass, abuse, detain, and arrest media, journalists, and protesters. 

During the internet censorship in Belarus, we performed a variety of tests on Delta Chat. We found that some email services were still working, specifically Yandex and mail.ru

Delta Chat messages sent from Yandex looked like any other ordinary and boring email. This made Delta.Chat very difficult to block.

As far as we know from other researchers in the area, local email providers didn't forward the mail outside the country, but for a group of testers (~10-15 logs) of our own servers as well as yandex and mail.ru, we were able to send email using STARTTLS.

Not only is it difficult to block, governments around the world actually don't really want to block email. Email is used for everything; from binine birthday cards, to finance, to life-saving information. That means there is collateral damage when the government blocks email. We've found that governments don't really do a great job of blocking decentralized protocols like Email, even for even a short amount of time.


## Independence is crucial

This type of innovation is not going to just happen by itself in the private sector. Email is the shining star example of a decentralized protocol that works even when everything else doesn't, precisely because it is an open, independent, and interoperable standard with no dependency on any one particular government, company, or business model.

Funding from the Open Technology Fund enabled our team at Delta Chat to dive even deeper into Email to produce a chat application that really works in places like Belarus.

Delta Chat is open source software maintained by real people all over the world, who are funded through independent sources. It is THIS independence in particular that makes Delta Chat special. There's trust that it'll last beyond a particular political moment or a particular business model or economic cycle. In these scenarios, people are trusting their technology with their lives.


In this moment, what we need are more decentralized protocols, like Email, and more independent applications, like delta.chat. We need more open standards built on research, not monopolies that are easily controlled by a single organization or government.



"Yes, @delta_chat works in Belarus, e.g. you can use it with Yandex (needs enabled IMAP support)"
-> [source: Twitter](https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293454056661356546)

"yes, Delta Chat works in Belarusia even if Signal, Whatsapp etc. suffer blockings."
-> [source: Twitter](https://nitter.net/delta_chat/status/1293456217248079872)
