---
title: "Delta Chat Version 2 simplifies end-to-end encryption for users" 
author: olgax
image: ../assets/blog//blog/handbag.jpg
---

A while ago, a contributor's mom who had used Delta Chat for years 
got back saying "Everything is fine! But why does each message have a hand bag?". 
She refered to the lock icon decorating each end-to-end encrypted message. 
Delta Chat Version 2 releases are for her and many others who don't engage in theorizing end-to-end encryption
yet want to use a messenger that keeps their chats, messages and contacts consistently private.

XXX image of (crossed-out?) handbag


## Less is more: robust end-to-end security for all messages by default 

XXX screenshot of a desktop chatlist + message list without any green checkmarks or padlocks in messages 

Version 2 of Delta Chat upgrades chats to become robustly end-to-end encrypted by default, 
mirroring the fac that the growing default [chatmail relay network](https://chatmail.at/relays) 
enforces end-to-end encryption with metadata-minimization for all messages already. 
This app security upgrade carefully maintains compatibility with older app releases
but internally migrates all contacts to be identified by cryptographic keys rather than e-mail addresses. 
By avoiding to maintain a binding between e-mail addresses and cryptographic keys, 
end-to-end encrypted chats can not degrade or be attacked by a network or server attacker after their creation. 

Experienced developers know: 
the best code or UI element in any sufficiently complex system is precisely the one which can be removed 
while simultanously improving overall functionality for users. 
A [massive rework in the central chatmail core Rust library](https://github.com/chatmail/core/pull/6796) 
added 4969 and removed 6299 lines of code, netting to removal of 1330 LOCs overall. 
In turn, it allowed Delta Chat apps on all platforms 
to remove pad locks, green checkmarks (mostly) and "encryption broken" dialogues from chats,
providing a robust consistently end-to-end encrypted user experience, by default. 

For more details, please visit the [Revised Encryption and Security FAQ section](help#encryption-and-security)
or watch [two recent June 2025 security talks](https://chaos.social/@delta/114794093068029745). 

## Classic e-mail usage is also enhanced but requires manual opt-in 

XXX screenshot of "new email" compose window 
XXX screenshot of "email chat" showing mail icon as avatar

While it's impossible 
to receive or send messages without end-to-end encryption
when automatically onboarding with [chatmail relays](https://chatmail.at/relays)
you can manually setup classic e-mail accounts. 
A "mail icon" will mark each such message without end-to-end encryption. 
Morewover, with such classic e-mail profiles you can use the "new email" UI action 
that allows to set a subject and add e-mail address recipients
before sending a cleartext e-mail message. 

## Contact Profiles are more beautiful on all platforms

XXX screenshosts of contact profiles on multiple platforms 

XXX write some text 
